I'm applauding the innovation. I'm I'm
I'm jumping on board the crypto train
and I hope I hope the incumbents aren't
able to strangle this thing in
Washington.
Hey man, great to see you. Good to see
you, Brad. What an incredible weekend of
college sports. You know, I have to
bring this up. I mean Okay. Texas had
that big upset of number six Oklahoma.
You had to be pretty stoked about that.
It was a good game. It was fun.
>> People that haven't been to a neutral
site game, so like Florida does with
Georgia, Texas OU, they meet every year
in the middle of the Texas Fair. So the
stadium's got several hundred thousand
people outside of it. Oh my god. And
when you get inside right on the 50, on
both 50s, you know, all one team on the
other and all the other fans on the
other. So it's loud and it goes back and
forth and it's unlike an experience you
get where there's a home team and the
crowd's all just rooting for one team.
Oh, that's cool. Well, my Hoosiers, my
Indiana Hoosiers Bill upset the number
three Ducks. Going to six and oh.
>> I have a lot of duck fans in my in my
friend group, so I'm going to
I'm going to refrain from celebrating
with you, but
>> I I have to say I used to celebrating
Hoosier basketball, but rarely Hoosier
football, but Kurt Zegner's done an
unbelievable job turning that program
around. My 90-year-old mother was
watching that game and sending me
play-by-play. So congrats to congrats to
the Hoosiers. Well, as long as we're
calling out college football teams and
then we can move on.
UCLA starts the season 0 and 4, then
upsets upsets Penn State at home with
almost no fans there and wins big again
this week and apparently there was a
coaching change after the 0 and 4. So
this could be the biggest turnaround in
history of college football.
Go Bruins. Pretty incredible. So there's
so much happening in the world today.
We're going to unpack a few of those
things. We're going to follow up on some
of the issues Bill that I raised in the
Jensen pod. You know, the latest AI
announcements, all this bubble talk,
circularity of revenues, quality of
revenues, AI regulation. But we're also
going to do something today and cover
something we don't often talk about on
the pod and that's like life and career.
Bill, you have a huge book coming out.
Running down a dream, how to thrive in a
career you actually love. I'm so excited
for this book. So we're also going to
talk a little bit about that today.
And and in the context of that, you
know, we're coming up on the two-year
anniversary of this pod. I can't believe
it. Time has flown by, but our you know,
when you and I talked about about doing
this, we said our mission really we want
to talk about markets, investing,
capitalism and companies, but really
through the eye of the investment
analyst. You and I more than anything
else I think are analysts. We try to
find the biggest problems,
opportunities, challenges in the world,
study them deeply. You know, we compare
notes non-stop. Occasionally as an
analyst that leads you to a big
investment idea. Sometimes it leads you
to a podcast, maybe writing an article,
teaching a class, for you writing this
book. And sometimes even a major policy
initiative like the Invest America Act
that actually became law. I think you
would agree with me the response over
the last two years has been amazing,
more than either you or I expected. But
you know, that also creates its own
pressure of its own to show up, to
deliver those unique insights and this
takes a bunch of time. Yeah.
>> So given that and I don't want to bury
the lead here, you have some huge
upcoming projects you want to work on.
And you're going to step back from the
co-hosting the pod. I'll still talk you
in on occasion, maybe to be in a guest,
but you're freeing up time to work on
your big passions like this book and
going deeper into these topics that
people have heard you talk about here,
US-China relations, talking about
regulatory capture, the dysfunctional
state of US healthcare.
And for those interested, the pod's
mission remains the same. I'm going to
keep the same name. We're going to keep
chopping it up with analysts I respect,
sometimes with Bill and covering topics
that matter. You know, like last week's
pod with Jensen Huang or upcoming pods I
have with Sam Altman or Sacha.
This is a moment of I think really
unique consequence. We both recognize
that. We're grateful to have the
opportunity to open source these
conversations that are truly shaping the
future.
And I know I speak for you. We do it for
the love of the game. Like this keeps us
sharp. It keeps us on edge.
You know, and it's a privilege really to
get on here and chop it up and share
something back with the tech ecosystem
that gives us you know, has given us so
much. So Bill, you know, you have
anything you want to say? It's a good
two-year run.
>> Yeah, first of all, just thanks to you,
Brad. Like this has been great going
back and forth. I had two primary
initiatives coming into it. One, as you
mentioned, was to stay sharp and the
other one was to share and give back and
I've been writing my thoughts on on the
tech industry since I was a sell-side
analyst, so
coming up on 30 years and always enjoyed
thinking out loud. I think it makes us
better as analysts and helps us to
understand. But but I also like to share
with people and there's no question in
my mind that this got bigger than I ever
anticipated it would. I've been chased
down in international cities recently. I
was I started talking with someone. They
had no idea what I looked like, but the
minute they heard my voice, they're
like, "Oh, you're the guy from the
podcast." So
um
it has been popular and I I know there
are going to be people that are upset
with me and that I can only say, you
know, I'm sorry and I apologize that I'm
not going to be doing it anymore. I came
across this quote that was really
inspiring to me. It said, "Life begins
where your comfort zone ends." And there
were a number of people that helped push
me to write the book. It's taken up
quite a bit of time in the last eight
years. It's been a very long project.
We'll talk about it more later, but I'm
feeling a calling to go work on or at
least attempt to work on some of these
bigger issues. So I want to create a
platform for that. I want to create room
for it and and move a bit away from the
space that I do know quite well and love
quite a bit, but pushing myself, you
know, outside of my own comfort zone and
hopefully, you know, having an impact on
things that really matter. You and I
talked about this throughout the entire
time I was working on Invest America. I
certainly encourage you and push you to
to do this. I think you have an enormous
amount to contribute. And listen, when I
you know, you and I chop it up together
every day. I know where you stand on a
lot of these issues. I'll bring those
opinions to bear for our audience and
you know, I certainly know that you'll
have the burning need to come on as a
guest on occasion and and share some of
those views. But but in the spirit of
analysis, let's let's just dive in. This
AI money bubble Bill and this Jensen
pod. Let's start by talking about that.
You know, we've had a just a flurry of
announcements including another
announcement this morning between Open
AI and Broadcom where Open AI is going
to be building their own inference
accelerator amounting to well over a
trillion dollars of incremental CapEx.
That's above and beyond what we already
knew was going to get built out. I know
that you have concerns about the level
of CapEx, the absolute level and I know
that you also have meaningful concerns
about how it's being financed. Why don't
you walk us through your major concerns?
I think anybody that's been a student of
financial history has
you know, studied different types of
activities that that historically, let's
just say historically have created red
flags. And the reason that, you know,
any AI you talk to would know what you
mean if you said circular revenues is
because someone has used it in the past
in a way that that wasn't good. And you
know, I had an exercise which I tweeted,
we can put in the show notes, people can
find, but I just described, you know,
there's not one thing. There's like six
different transactions that have
happened now that I would say are
non-normal. And I just described those
things to ChatGPT and asked it for its
analysis both as an accountant and as a
financial investor. And the AI itself,
you know, would would find its way
toward company names like Enron and
WorldCom and those kind of things merely
by describing the type of transaction.
And so I think that suggests if we
believe in intelligent AI, that that's
just what historically has been come the
best practice and way to think about
these things. And I've I've told you
before, I think you you have highlighted
that some of the multiples are actually
not that high and I think this is part
of the reason because there are red
flags that people are looking at. If you
peel that back a little bit more, you
know, one of the things that you and I
have talked about, the very nature, you
know, of round-tripping or circular
revenues, you know, I think there's this
continuum. On one end of the trans on
one end of the continuum is a true sham
transaction. There's no underlying
demand for the product. I send you a
billion dollars, you send me the billion
dollars back. Right? That's clearly a
sham transaction because there's no
underlying demand. On the other end, I
have massive demand for my product. You
have plenty of places you can go get
capital and we just happen to have a an
investment relationship in addition to
that and I'm buying your product. And
those things happen all over the place
in our economy and you know, maybe
something to pay attention to, but it's
certainly not even close to being
illegal and it frankly doesn't even
cause me a lot of concerns about the
quality of revenue. And then we have
things in the middle, right? And these
things in the middle where you can ask a
question like, "Would this much of
revenue or product had been purchased
but for this investment?" Right? And I
think that at a minimum calls the
revenue, the quality of those revenues
into question. So, when you look at
that, do you discriminate between the
types of transactions that have been
announced? I mean, you raised this
question first 18 months ago about the
credit transactions that were occurring
with a hyperscaler. So, maybe just
unpack a few of the different types of
transactions. Yeah, and look, I think it
started at the very beginning. And and I
think that's one of the things that's
causing this is it's become part of the
competitive landscape and the
competitive dynamic. So, yeah, I think
there are many boards and many CFOs who
have been put in a position where they
say, "Well, if we don't do it, everyone
else is doing it. You might fall
behind." But it But it started with the
original, from my perspective, with the
original Microsoft OpenAI deal, where
credits go in as a in-kind investment,
and then those credits are used back
against, you know, Azure and and
Microsoft cloud services. And in the in
that case, you know, and I said it back
then, I'll say it again now, that's a
revenue That's a cashless transaction.
Like, there's no cash, but it becomes an
income statement uh revenue item for
Microsoft. And I don't think that's
ideal from an economic standpoint. And
that practice is now, I think, happened
at Amazon and happened at Google. I
think they've made investments in other
AI startups with the same kind of thing.
And at the very least, it drives usage
of their product versus someone else.
Um and in the worst case, you know, it
creates revenue that might not have
existed had it had it not been for that
deal, or at least not on those terms. Uh
but anyway, it started there. It's
become quite competitive now. There's an
interesting podcast on Plain Simple,
which I I don't Plain English, which is
a a uh
in the Bill Simmons family, with Paul
Kad Kadrosky. And he He makes the
argument that part of the reason these
transactions are taking place I think I
think this is a credible argument he
makes is because some of these players
have already put so much CapEx, so much
debt on themselves that they don't want
to take the next step. And so, in that
case, you know, you have reached some
level where the company's saying, "Oops,
you know, I feel uncomfortable going
further than this." The transaction that
comes to my mind when I think of that is
there was one where Microsoft
I mean, Meta agreed to pay for the
failure of debt on a facility where they
don't own the debt, you know? And to me,
that's classic off-balance sheet
financing. If they own the risk of it,
just because they don't own the paper,
you know, it I don't see the difference,
really. But this is Like I said, this is
happening in a in a lot of different
places.
You know, one of the things that you
know, again, I've I've talked about a
little bit on All-In and other places.
If I look at the Nvidia deal as an
example, Bill, Nvidia has the
opportunity to invest, though not the
obligation to invest. OpenAI has the
opportunity to use their chips, though
not the obligation to use their chips,
as evidenced by the fact they just
announced their own chip this morning,
and they just cut up a huge deal with
AMD. And, you know, in the case of
Nvidia, you're not talking about a
highly levered business. It's a company
that's going to generate $450 billion of
free cash and is taking a small fraction
of that over the next 3 years and
investing in companies that it it it
thinks are good returning investments. I
mean, Google and Google Capital have
been doing this for, you know, for
years, etc. So, again, I think in those
cases, you can say for certain that
maybe uh you know, more of their product
is being consumed than would have
otherwise been consumed, right? Uh you
know, we saw this announcement last week
where they're investing in this xAI with
respect to their new round. Most of
these companies that they're investing
in, I think, have the economic
wherewithal to raise the capital in
other places. Elon could certainly raise
it in other places. OpenAI was well
oversubscribed, so they could have
raised it in other places. But here's
what I think people should be on the
lookout for. Okay, so where would I have
more concern?
Okay? Now, imagine there's a a a chip
that there's only one customer for. So,
there's not a lot of demand for the
chip.
And that that chip manufacturer gives a
customer $10 billion, and that customer
turns around and buys that chip,
right? So, there's no other potential
customers, and that the the the buyer
would not have had a the ability to buy
it but for that capital. That to me
raises big red flags. And I do think in
this overall ecosystem, the reason I'm
happy you're bringing it up, I think one
of the things we need to do to keep the
wall of worry there, to keep the
excesses from emerging, is to call them
out. I'm not concerned as a shareholder
in Nvidia with what I'm seeing Nvidia do
today. I like how they're deploying
their cash on their balance sheet. But I
do think that as you go further and
further out the risk curve, right?
Further and further to these startup neo
clouds or further and further to startup
chips, you know, etc., where people, to
your point, are a little bit more
desperate for capital, don't have the
balance sheets, don't have the market
leadership position, I would not be
surprised at all in this moment to see
more of those yellow flags emerge.
There's a couple things, you know, that
I would say in response. One, there's a
reason we know about a lot of these
things, and that's because some auditor
somewhere made them disclose them. Like,
they felt that it was
um
abnormal enough to require disclosure.
Second, I heard I listened to you and
and the All-In team talk about this
issue. I I do think investment is
riskier or more risk-seeking than
customer loans, which it was compared
to. And Cisco got in trouble just with
the customer loans, cuz they were giving
loans to startups who really didn't have
the wherewithal to pay them back. But
when That's really the issue for me,
though, when you switch from a loan to
an equity, you no longer have to pay it
back. So, in some ways, it's uh it's
easier on the purchaser than if you had
a loan themselves. But But here's my
Here's my bottom line.
I think what this does, this this
overall situation, is first of all, I
think it's driven by competition at this
point. And like the first the first step
into the gray zone was way back at the
beginning. And so, now I think we're
we're fairly pregnant with it. So, I
think it's a competitive dynamic. I
think it increases the chance that we go
over the top, that that we end up
over-provisioning. And I I kind of felt
like that was unavoidable anyway. But
now I think it's higher. And But I think
it maybe pushes out when we find out
that happens, because you've you've just
created more virtual leverage on the
whole system, and you might be hiding
some of the signs that would tell you
things are slowing down. I'll give you a
great example. One of the more peculiar
of all the deals is, and this was
disclosed in a CoreWeave filing, was
Nvidia has promised to buy any of
CoreWeave's
service availability that they can't
sell to anyone else. That is very
unusual. That's not the same as making
an investment. That could easily help
CoreWeave with their debtors in in
getting more debt financing. But it also
means, as a investor, we we don't know
what's going on with real demand for
CoreWeave, because we probably won't be
told if they start moving into the world
where they're
offloading to Nvidia or not. And if
you'd have said to me, "What would you
look for to see if we've, you know, kind
of reached a point where things are
slowing a little bit?" You'd say, "Well,
let's look at one of the pure plays."
Um And so, now that's money. I could see
how it it could be, but I I would expect
that every analyst on every CoreWeave
call for the next, you know, eight
quarters, maybe thanks to you you just
raising the flag, is going to be asking
the question, right? Do you see any
slowing? Do are you having to send any
of your uh of your demand to Nvidia, you
know, as a result of this? I mean, one
of the things I like about this as well,
right? These are public companies, both
CoreWeave and Nvidia. It is a disclosed
transaction. It's not like this stuff's
occurring in the dark of night. People
can ask the questions of this you know,
this with regard to demand. And I will
tell you,
there is the the amount of money that is
being spent to track every single part
of this supply chain, from Taiwan to the
United States. I mean, look at Dylan
Patel's business at SemiAnalysis. The
thing has exploded. The amount of money
people are spending just to stay on top
of this. And the second they see
something that smacks of any, you know,
leakage in demand, boom, docs fall and
and and and warnings go up. So, I think
it's a good point. But I think Let me
transition, because I do want to talk
about this question of demand. So, on
the one hand, there's this question
about quality of revenues. On the other
question is, are we overbuilding? So,
let's show this chart again. This is
basically the $3 trillion of build-out
expected over the next 5 years. This is
the CapEx chart that we've shown here
before. To put that in perspective,
Bill,
that's about 60 gigs, right? Because we
we now are normalizing everything's to
gigawatts of data center. So, that's
about 60 gigs. It's not all incremental.
A lot of that is is is replacement or
upgrade. Keep that in mind. The second
is this chart of Nvidia revenues. This
is the Nvidia sell-side forecast, okay?
Forecast this year is for about 200
billion in revenues, growing to about
350 billion in revenues over the next 5
years.
So, this year that means that they're
selling about four to five gigs worth of
compute. And again, most of that's
incremental, but it's not all
incremental.
And that would grow to nine gigs of
compute, nine, in 2029-2030.
So, that's 350 or 400 billion. That's
the NVIDIA consensus revenue forecast,
right? And I asked Jensen on the pod
about this, and I said, "What is the
chance that we get into a glut over the
course of, you know, the next four or
five years?" And we'll play the you
know, the piece, but he basically said
there's zero chance over the next two to
three years because all the build-out
will go to the biggest hyperscalers with
the biggest balance sheets in the world,
and they're building it to to run their
core businesses. We haven't even got
into the full
amount with respect to these new
generative AI workloads. So, what is the
percentage probability that you think
we'll have a glut, we'll run into a glut
in the next three or four or five years?
Until we
fully
convert
all
general purpose computing to accelerated
computing and AI. Until we do that.
>> Yes.
I think the chances are extremely low.
Okay. So, here's a question I have for
you. Did you hear anything in the last
couple of weeks that caused you to
believe that we're on the verge of some
bubble bursting or we're greatly
overbuilding or or anything else? Or is
it just the flags are up and now it's a
wait and see?
Yeah, sure. It's funny, they had Howard
Marks on CNBC this morning. I'm a huge
Howard Marks fan, and they asked him
this question, and he he said, "Look,
multiples are too low to for this to be
you can't be on bubble watch if the
multiples aren't high enough." And
you've been making this point for a long
time. And I would say like you'd have to
be a fool not to notice that these
numbers you're talking about are so
remarkably unprecedented from anything
we've ever seen before. They are
massive. You know, I I've talked about,
you know, to see the Mac 7 go from
being massive cash producers to where
they're
many of them are taking the majority of
their free cash flow and the CapEx. It's
it's it's totally new, and clearly
everyone believes that this wave is
maybe bigger than the previous waves
we've seen that have led to so much
value creation. So, all that's
happening. I like to believe that it's
okay to recognize that the market's
great and still think that these
transactions shouldn't happen this
way. And I'm I'm able to keep both those
things in my head at the same time. I I
I think I I think it's a super fair
point. By the way, you just mentioned
it, so we'll include this chart. This is
Mag 5 CapEx as a percentage of their
operating free cash flow bill. And if
you look at it in 2025,
so that's this year, they'll spend about
66%
of their operating cash flow on CapEx.
Yep.
>> Right? And if you look at the the the
consensus forecast for their CapEx
relative to their operating cash flow,
this is the peak. Around 66%, and it has
it going down to about 45 or 50%. Now,
embedded in there is they're going to
keep growing their operating free cash
flow at 15 to 20% a year, right? So,
there's still room for them to to grow
with that coming down. But I think that
is another thing to keep your eye on.
How much are they spending? And by the
way, just give you an order of
magnitude, Bill, in 2023, their total
CapEx was 156 billion.
And this year, it's 379 billion.
Right? So, radical step up in in your
point's a good one. And just remember a
couple years ago in 2022,
when Meta stepped up their CapEx
spending on Reality Labs,
the stock got obliterated because people
said, "What the hell are you doing? This
is all about free cash flow per share
per share." Including myself, and I was
saying, you know,
let's get fit here. Let's drive more
free cash flow out of the business. You
know, so much so that the CFO sent me a
hat that says free cash flow, right? So,
they got real about free cash flow, but
there's a difference between investing
that free cash flow in data centers and
AI than there was in Reality Labs. As an
investor, let me just tell you my own
perspective. The reason Meta's stock's
doing great, notwithstanding going back
to high levels of CapEx spend, is
because now the investors understand it
and believe in it. We're seeing the
benefits, right, in the earnings of the
business. They're growing the earnings
of the business. They don't have to hire
a lot of new employees, and so it's it's
fundamentally different than the CapEx
that was going into Reality Labs, where
investors were saying,
"Hold on a second, we're going to spend
100 plus billion dollars over the next
five years. We don't even know what
we're building."
Right? We don't know what it'll be worth
at the end of the day. So, I think for
now, at least, there's enough belief in
the the byproduct of generative AI
because people are using ChatGPT,
they're seeing the utility in the
enterprise that they're going you know,
that they're willing to tolerate these
companies giving over half of their free
cash flow to these build-outs.
I do think another dynamic is the race
condition created by the competitive
dynamic. And it appears from where I
sit, and you don't need to comment cuz
you're an investor and and maybe have
more information than I do. Probably
have more information than I do. But it
appears to me that OpenAI, um through
all these partnerships and
announcements, is trying to create
escape velocity, you know? And that
could be against the model providers, it
could be against a hosting provider,
depending on how you think the market
plays out. Um it could could be on the
consumer side, it could be on the API
side. But it it it creates an
interesting stress test for anyone else
in the ecosystem to say, "Are you going
to lay chase?" Because of all the
numbers you laid out there, they're
they're gargantuan. And it it'll be
interesting. That's my opinion. It just
feels like they're they're daring people
to to follow them, and and I suspect a
bunch don't. I mean, it may work. Well,
it's you've seen this before, I know.
We've talked about many times on here.
This was in Lyft. Um ultimately, I think
a couple things to remember. These these
announcements are frameworks. It it
allows people to begin working, but
they're not etched in stone. These are
not contractual obligations. You know,
everybody's got to deliver their parts.
If the demand comes in lower, then these
people are not going you know, leave
>> Oracle wouldn't have to be contractual
for it to be RPO. Yeah, you know, I you
may know more
>> Well, for sure
I shouldn't say that they're all right
frameworks, but I know, for example,
like in the case of AMD, they're going
to have to deliver a workable chip, or
you're not going to build six gigs'
worth. Yeah.
>> Right? Uh in the case of this Broadcom
announcement, obviously, they have to
build a workable chip. So, I think your
speculation, and again, it makes sense
to me. If you said, "What are the
advantages of getting out there and
locking up all of these deals?" Right? I
I can't imagine it it it doesn't help a
lot with recruiting. All the best
researchers in the world want to work at
the place that has the most compute, and
so you want to lock up the compute. I I
I have to imagine it helps with the
supply chain, because, you know, now
you're you're locking up that supply.
So, I think your speculation is a pretty
big one, a pretty good one. But at the
end of the day, if you add up all these
deals, I tried to do this, and we may be
we may be off by a bit, and I'd
encourage people who have a better
estimate to let me know. But if you add
them all up, it looks like to me OpenAI
would be on the hook for like 150
billion of CapEx in 2030.
Okay? And so, like, the question is,
Bill, what how much revenue do they need
in 2030 to justify 100, you know, 150
billion in CapEx? Well, I think you
would need at least 150 billion of
revenue.
Right? And, you know, like, at a
minimum. We just talked about Meta and
these companies spending 66% on CapEx.
But if they had 150 billion of revenue,
then the question is, is it plausible
they could have 150 billion dollars of
revenue in 2030? And I would argue as an
investor that it's it's more than more
than plausible that they could have 150
billion of revenue. But I think it makes
it very, very difficult for anybody else
other than the hyperscalers. Obviously,
Google's going to be there.
Obviously, Meta's going to be there.
Obviously, Amazon, you know, can be
there. But it makes it very, very
difficult for anybody else in the
ecosystem, right? Who believes this is a
game of of scale compute competes. So, I
think your point's a good one.
All right.
>> maybe shift a little bit, you know, to
an area of passion for both you and I,
which is this AI regulation. We've
talked on the pod many times about the
concerning patchwork of these emerging
state regulations that, under the guise
of doing good, and maybe they're even
well-intentioned, cause a hell of a lot
more confusion at best, and at worst,
they set back our leading frontier labs,
you know, and and really hamper us in
the race to to stay in the in the lead
in global AI. Well, it's gone from more
theoretical to now more more more
problematic. I tweeted over the weekend
in particular about this Colorado AI
Act, which is now passed into law,
signed into law. It defines something
called algorithmic discrimination
by outlining these 12 protected classes.
Of course, age, color, religion, but
also limited proficiency in English
language, reproductive health. And
basically said if the algo provides
info,
right? If the chatbot provides
information that's used to discriminate,
then there's liability back at the
frontier model level,
right? And just this morning, Gavin
Newsom signed SB 243, which mandates
safety protocols for AI chatbot
companions, and gives any consumer a
private right of action to sue these
companies for any emotional harm that
comes out of a chatbot. I mean, I
you not. You can't make this stuff up.
And you said recently that China is so
competitive with the United States
because it's run by engineers and
America's run by lawyers, and that's the
greatest risk we have. Talk to us about
the need for federal preemption and you
know, again, just let's dive back into
your concern about these two laws that
were just passed.
As an aside, I just consumed Jonathan
Haidt's book Anxious Generation where he
talks about what he believes is some
social harms caused by some of the apps
on the internet ecosystem. And I do
think a lot of the passion for writing
some of these states' laws comes from
that place. Like there are local
congressmen that that feel like they
should have been out in front of social
media more, and so they want to get a
jump on this. And and and I I think some
of that comes from there. You run this
massive risk of of trying to regulate a
brand new technology
at a state-by-state level. And you know,
you could ask yourself, you know, and
and and by the way, I
I've said this a lot about policy. The
intent of the policy is different from
what happens once the policy is
implemented. And so people can come in
with great intentions, and this goes
back to my speech at All-in on
regulatory capture, and you can end up
with the exact opposite outcome of what
you intended because you just don't know
enough about the way you write the
regulation. Right now, a lot of people
believe we're in this global competition
to to see, you know, whose
tech stack for AI is used on a global
basis. And
if we implement 50 different state rules
that these companies have to jump
through, and companies that are that are
competitors that are competing in the
broader world don't have any of them,
there is zero chance that's not going to
create mud and slow down the US players.
There's just zero chance. And
I'm certain the people that are writing
these laws don't understand that there
might be some global, you know,
consequence of what they're doing. But
but it's bad. I mean, I can remember
when Obama was excited about removing
some of the state-by-state requirements
on like hair stylists and whatnot
because it makes it such that they can't
move between states. And it's kind of
ridiculous that they would have
different laws and different licenses.
This is like
if that's a problem, this is really a
problem. And so I, you know, from a
global competitiveness standpoint, I
would certainly hope that that they're
able to federalize this and preempt it.
I don't know if it's there's too much,
you know, water under the bridge or not.
I don't know enough about what it takes
in Congress to make that happen. But I
think this is bad for
I think it's bad for the US. it's bad
for innovation broadly. It's going to
make it harder for startups to do things
just because they're going to have to
worry about all this stuff. Yeah, it's
it's it's way worse for little tech,
right? Because smaller companies don't
have phalanxes of lawyers. They can, you
know, go out and comply. You know, I
think the other thing is listen, we
already have the Civil Rights Act, we
have the Fair Housing Act, we have the
American with Disabilities Act. Of
course, we don't want discrimination.
But this just seems like broad
overreach. It's no like I don't even
know how you comply or enforce. And so
it just ends up bogging down the entire
system in uncertainty and litigation.
And again, it's important to say this
isn't even about whether or not AI
should be regulated.
It's just a question of who should
regulate it. And what we're saying is
that, you know, there is ample
opportunity
for this administration and Congress to
get together and write legislation to
the extent it needs to be written,
right? To provide a national These are
inherently interstate technologies.
There's no way to keep it in a single
state. And so write a piece of national
legislation that allows us to continue
moving forward very quickly, but all the
at the same time addresses any of these
concerns. I frankly think we need a we
need a moratorium on all state laws.
Postpone all state laws until the
federal government has time to act. And
if states are going to pass these laws,
Bill, then I wonder whether or not
OpenAI or some other company should
consider blocking the citizens of those
states until it's resolved at the
national level. Somebody needs to get
the attention of these states that they
can't do this on a state-by-state level.
It's bad for the companies, it's bad for
the country. But hopefully we'll get
action out of Congress soon. I think
there's good momentum. We almost had it
passed as part of the I think the big
beautiful bill.
And so I think there's a lot of movement
afoot in order to do it. I wanted to
highlight it because I think it's it's
one of the high priority issues facing
the new Congress. All this AI all the
time stuff, Bill, and you you pinged me
and you said, "Hey, I want to talk about
stablecoin, right?" We have this
parallel development in the world. So I
think if we have three major trends in
the world,
AI is clearly the largest supercycle
going on. The reindustrialization of
America is massive. All these critical
supply chains. And I would say the third
one is kind of the digitization and
tokenization of finance. It's going on
as a result of the administration
basically turning
>> And you have to fill out pages and pages
of crap. Sometimes get a verbal. And it
and it and it and it's, you know, we are
so behind. I am going to go out on a
limb and say I hope someone, whoever
agitated this to happen in the Trump
administration, is someone who is kind
of caught in a regulatory capture
position getting lobbied by somebody. I
I think if the Trump administration
studied this, they shouldn't be critical
of PIX. They should be envious of it. We
should have done this a long time ago
with FedNow. But we may be on the verge
of stablecoin just being able to do this
anyway. And the rails have tons of
transaction on them as you've talked
about. We have this interesting
situation where Coinbase and Circle have
done this deal where Coinbase will allow
you to earn 4% on your stablecoin
balance. Which, you know, to to get that
kind of return at another bank,
even a neo bank, you have to have your
direct deposit go there. Here, whether
it's 10 bucks or or a million bucks, you
know, you put it in stablecoin with
Coinbase and you start earning 4% daily.
And on top of that, and this gets back
to the PIX thing,
you can transact immediately out of that
account. So you don't have to like move
it from your savings to your checking to
get it to do ACH. Like you can send
stablecoin immediately in microseconds,
and it'll cost you a few pennies. It is
The rails are there. They're ready. And
it's working. And I think the UI is a
little difficult, but there's no reason
why that won't get better and faster.
And so I look up, you know, and I I'm
just I wonder what the team at Meta like
they might just be kicking themselves.
Like with all the money they spent on
that coin, everything they wanted to do
on WhatsApp, like they should be running
back at it. Like I don't know
>> Well, I think so maybe they should, you
know, remember the guy who did the the
Libra network, David Marcus, has started
the lightning network now. It's a
startup. Maybe maybe Meta should go buy
you know, should go buy lightning and
bring David back in house because
you know, all the things they talked
about all the things they talked about
are now what's happening, Bill. And let
me tell you one I think you're onto
something big here, but one of the
challenges we still have I think first
anybody who looks at our current system
right, knows that it's dreadfully behind
the rest of the world. Right? And we
know it's the result of regulatory
capture by not only our issuers, but the
banks and everybody else who who likes
that who benefit from the status quo.
But if you look at Visa and MasterCard
today, I think that they're doing
something like 50,000 transactions per
second. And I checked with our good
buddy Vinnie Lingham. And he said, you
know, on on both Solana and ETH today,
they're still under 4,000 transactions
per second. So they're trying to come up
with these solutions to actually make
the rails have the functional throughput
and efficient settlement required to
really become a consumer product. But I
think you nailed the other one that you
know, Patrick Collison had a tweet on
this that I replied to, which is you
know, when Genius Act was passed, there
was massive lobbying by the banks to
prevent the crypto companies from paying
interest on stable coins.
So the settlement was that they could
pay rewards, not interest. Okay? And um
but what the way in which it's
manifested itself because Coinbase is
not the issuer, Circle is the issuer and
they did this deal. So Coinbase is
promoting it as though it was interest.
So from a consumer perspective, a reward
and interest if it's 4% is
indistinguishable. No doubt. Right? So I
put my money
>> and obviously Brian's been out on Brian
Armstrong of Coinbase has been out on X
like
arguing his side of the argument. So
he's clearly he's either getting
opposition or expecting opposition on
the regulatory front. And when I see,
you know, whether you know, whether it's
Visa or Nasdaq or any of these people
kind of run at the tokenization I always
worry like cuz if you look at the
history of like the debit card versus
the credit card, it was supposed to be
disruptive. It was supposed to be an
alternative that would change things,
but they just they just run at it and
strangle it and mix it up a little bit
and then it's not as disruptive as it
was. That's their go-to move. But you
know, when I read this thing on PIX
again, like I'm going to read this out
loud
as part of its aggressive economic and
political campaign against Brazil is
investigating PIX accusing the payment
system of unfairly utter undercutting US
financial and technology companies like
Visa and Apple.
I mean
that's the most absurd thing I've ever
heard. Undercutting Visa? Like do do
they realize they have Visa MasterCard
have like the top two operating incomes
in the history of American business?
Like like there's there's no one that
needs less protection than these guys.
If anything, there should be an
investigation
>> dinner at the White House?
>> cabal? I don't know. I I just like it's
a it's so bizarre to me. I'm so thrilled
to to see this kind of disruption. I
think that it's super interesting what's
possible. I suspect all the big guys
should be paying attention to this.
Apple, Google, Amazon anybody that might
have payment on their rails I'll go out
on a limb, Bill. You're going to see the
you're going to see the hyperscalers.
You're going to see Amazon and Meta and
these guys back involved in the stable
business. At the end of the day, we know
money is a network effects business. And
the challenge of Circle and some of
these stables from a consumer
perspective is
universal
Visa and MasterCard are universal.
So you got to get to all the merchants.
Well, who has all the merchants? Amazon
and Meta.
Right? And so I think they're in a great
position to partner with or do some of
these things themselves. Clearly they
have the instinct to do it. That's why
they did Libra in the first place. It's
also amazing for innovation. And and one
of the reasons why I think those bigger
companies should run at this is if you
look at the history of the PIX like
alternatives I mentioned in the UK and
China and India the startups that do
financial innovation scale up way more
aggressively successfully on those rails
that are cheaper and faster. And it if
if anything the having
more rigid, high friction, high
transaction cost rails makes it harder
for a startup to think about, you know,
using one of those technologies. And so
the success of WeChat Pay and Alipay,
which I as I described for my China chip
are universal. They're only way people
pay in China happened because of that
government instant pay product, not not
in spite of it. And and the same thing I
talked to the CEO of Nubank. He said PIX
was huge for his business. So it's
probably bad for a laggard bank, but for
a bank that embraces it, it just becomes
a better feature. And I think the same
thing about Coinbase and what they're
doing here. So I'm applauding the
innovation. I'm I'm I'm jumping on board
the crypto train and I hope I hope the
incumbents aren't able to strangle this
thing in Washington. Here, here. Here,
here.
As we move towards the end and and talk
about my book and what I'm going to do
next, I do want to share with you that
that both my book and and the the next
project are outside of what I've I've
spent my career doing. And and as I
mentioned, you know, that that's kind of
moving outside my comfort zone, but it's
also, you know, trying to have an impact
and give back in areas
that that I don't know as well, but but
with a hope towards having an impact.
I've said this to you before, but I I've
been just
inspired, frankly, to go do this based
on your success with Invest America.
When you first told me about it you
know, I had doubts that you could get it
done, real doubts. And
I've watched other people in your shoes
try and do these types of things over
decades and be unsuccessful. So you made
it look easy. I know it's just getting
started, um but I wanted you to know how
much that inspired what I'm going to go
do. And and could you give us an update
on where things are? Well, that means a
lot, Bill. Maybe to talk about it first
is just a reminder. You know, we I think
you and I agree, we kind of have this
battle for the soul of America when it
comes to capitalism right now. Right?
And that that's fundamentally because
too many people feel left out and left
behind. 60% of people will never own
assets that compound. Mondami's winning
the mayoral race in New York City. And
you know, they're doing it by being
anti-capitalist.
But if you look at these two charts,
I've shown them many times before it
just shows you that free market
capitalism is the most productive force
in the history of the world. Right? This
first chart just shows that GDP on a
global basis went parabolic at the exact
same time that capitalism was really
introduced and started taking off. And
you know, remind reminder like GDP is
important because it's that surplus for
humanity
with a fixed amount of labor and capital
that then leads to better schools and
better hospitals and and and drugs that
save lives and all the things that make
our lives better. And you can look at
this chart that shows the results. Fewer
mothers die in childbirth. The average
age you know, of life is extended. The
quality of life is higher. Literacy
rates are higher. Bill Gates extols upon
this in his in his annual letters. So
it's not just an investment account.
This is really a much much bigger battle
over where we want the country to go.
And I was very concerned as you know, a
few years ago that we were headed down
this path. Right? And the path is that
you can't have so many people left out
and left behind. So I think the answer
to socialism, which has not worked for
Europe, right? It Europe's in a disaster
relative to where they were 30 years ago
on a on on a global competitive basis.
And China, as you well noted, have
pulled themselves out of poverty by
leveraging capitalism, right? So the
answer to this drift into socialism is
more capitalism.
And the Invest America accounts, now
known as the Trump accounts right, are
more capitalism. They make every child a
capitalist from birth, a private owner
gives them a thousand bucks in a 401k
like account that they own and control
their family has on their phone. And so
I think that's a game changer, you know,
but you're right. We just got it passed.
So what where are we now? The Treasury
Secretary, Scott Bessent, has to
implement this. And by the way, this is
one of the largest consumer launches in
the history of government. So at the
start today, there are 65 million kids
in the country qualified for an Invest
America account. Every kid under the age
of 18.
And every kid under the age of two will
automatically get a thousand bucks in
their account. Right? So you'll probably
hear a launch starting in maybe early
December. We'll the launch the website.
People can sign up for this. Remember
the accounts have to be funded and
established by our 250th birthday, July
4, 2026. That's only nine months from
now. And I can tell you I've been blown
away by the secretary, Secretary
Bessent, the assistant secretary, Luke
Pettit, and the team at Treasury working
with the White House. They're attacking
this the way I would attack I would
expect a a Silicon Valley startup to
attack the problem. They've gotten a
great a great group of technologists.
Joe Gebbia helping to design the front
end of this, of course, from Airbnb. So
you know, we're we're on the verge now
of some major announcements, the the
start where people can start signing up
their kids. You know, and then the goal
is once we launch this, all these kids
will have these accounts. they'll be
able to roll them over into their
favorite, you know, bank, whether it's
Schwab or Fidelity or JP Morgan or what
have you. And starting on July 4th of
next year, Bill, as close to automatic
account creation as possible. So, you
have a child, the child's born, they get
a social security number, and they get
an account seeded with a thousand bucks.
From a kid's perspective, it's going to
look like I own a little bit of
Microsoft, and I own a little bit of
United Healthcare and Nvidia and
whatever. We're going to be able to
teach us, in fact, you know, your buddy
Tim, who's teaching financial literacy,
you know, we now have 30 states require
financial literacy requirements. We're
going to have this embedded in the
schools. Every kid's going to have this
on their phone. So, at any rate, it's
going incredibly well. I give I give
them a very high score, but we got to
get it done.
So,
let's talk about your book. Well, I've
been a huge fan of
of the speech you made on this, but I
love the title, Running Down a Dream.
What's the thrust of the book? I
remember
you know, kind of that lecture, but what
really compelled you to write it?
So, I was years ago, and this this is
probably going back 10 years. I was
reading a lot of biographies, and I
noticed certain patterns among people
with extraordinary careers. And as VCs,
we see a lot of patterns in businesses
and pattern recognition, and I just saw
patterns with people. And in the back of
my mind, I always wanted to do this
presentation. I I I kind of kept notes
on it like I would a unwritten Above the
Crowd blog post. And I had an
opportunity, I got invited, had an
opportunity to give the presentation to
the MBA class at the University of
Texas, and so I, you know, I worked on
it and put it together, made it nice,
and gave that presentation. They ended
up putting that on YouTube, and many
people have come to me and said that
it's changed their lives, encouraged
them to do different things. Certain
people in the in the in the media
industry noticed David Senra, who's got
the new podcast where he interviewed
Daniel Ek and Mike Cole. He's a big fan
of the presentation, talks about it a
lot in on his podcast. James Clear, who
wrote Atomic Habits, maybe one of the
best self-help personal development
writers out there. He retweeted it and
put a transcript on his own website. And
then a few people who are influential in
my life started prodding me, "Hey, you
should turn that into a book." And so,
eventually I got convinced. We talked to
publishers, they were interested, and so
I started working on this. Now, it took
a long time. And the the thing I would
say about it is that I hope that that
time equates to quality. Like, I was out
there really wanting to make it great.
And so, the book has an interesting kind
of novel architecture. We combine what I
call profiles, so stories of success
with principles, tools of success. So,
they alternate. So, you get a a story
maybe about someone you didn't know, and
how they started at the very bottom and
became successful, and then the types of
things they did. I mean, I do I do think
that the principles, these tools that
are in the book, are things people can
use. And I really wanted to be great.
It's done. I still need to record the
audio version. All the podcast fans of
ours tell me I have to do it. It has to
be my voice. So, I'm going to do it. I
hope people love it. I I hope it changes
their lives for the better. And what I
really want to encourage is people to
take a chance and and do what they
really love.
I think it's such an important topic.
You know, one of the things parents are
asking me so much these days is, you
know, what what what should my kids do?
Particularly give There's a lot of
anxiety in the world.
Right today about future careers. And
so, maybe just talk a little bit about
why this is so important now, because I
think the timing is really profound
here.
So, in in the introduction chapter, we
unpack a lot of this. And I don't think
anyone would be surprised when I read
some of this, but but Gallup Poll does a
career engagement study. They've been
doing it for a long time. I think in the
2023 when only 23% of people said they
were thriving or engaged at work, and
59% were unsatisfied. And that's just a
big universal survey. Everyone seems
aware that we've kind of moved to this
gauntlet that we've put our kids in as
they approach college and go through
college. In The Coddling of the American
Mind, Haidt and Lukianoff called it a
resume arms race. And
we've really taught them to be grinders,
but Angela Duckworth highlights that if
you have persistence but not passion,
you eventually recognize you're in a
grind. And and and and when you come out
of that, you're in a really tough spot.
And so, we've got people We've got these
kids on this runway. We We're telling
them like they have to pick a a major
even in their applications. So, they're
17. What do you want to do with your
life? What do you want to do? And And
they they really don't know. And one
thing we stumbled upon doing research on
the book, I was working with a
researcher. We did this survey and asked
people, if you could start your career
over again, would you do things
differently? And in that survey, 70% of
people said yes. And we did it again
with Wharton just to make sure we had,
you know, a true academic survey going
on, and they did a lot more people, and
that number was still six in 10. Six in
10 said if they could start a career
over, they'd do it again. And
there's a there's a great book. I read a
lot of books in writing my book, but
there's a great book called The Power of
Regret by Daniel Pink. He's He's a
well-known author, but he he has this
thing he calls boldness regrets. And he
said, "One of the most robust findings
in the academic research and on my own
is that over time we are much more
likely to regret the chances we didn't
take than the chances we did."
He says again, the surface domain,
whether the risk involved are education
or work or love lives, doesn't matter
much. What haunts us is the inaction
itself. And so, I think that I think
that ties really nicely with this idea
that if people could start over, they'd
do something they'd do something
different. There's a great video that
that Pink references that we can put in
the show notes where Bezos is asked
about the decision to leave D.E. Shaw
and
and start Amazon. And he said he used a
regret minimization framework. He said
only a nerd could do that, but he said
um
that he imagined himself being 80, and
would he care that he left D.E. Shaw
maybe for winning a bonus, you know, or
would he or would he care more that he
didn't take this chance, this kind of
instinctive chance that he felt like he
had to take. And he immediately after
thinking about it in in that way wanted
to go do it. And so,
>> Hey Hey Bill I have Bezos's regret
minimization
framework taped to my computer monitor.
There you go. I didn't even know that.
>> literally taped to my monitor. Yeah.
Powerful.
Yeah. So, so that's that's that's what
this is about. That's what this book is
about. That's who it's for. And I want
more people to take a flyer and go do
what they love. You know, we have a
phrase I use in the book, life is a use
it or lose it proposition. Totally.
One shot deal, man. Well, how do you
plan to promote it? It comes out in
February, late February. And so, I'm
just getting started in that process. If
people have ideas they want to share
with me, please reach out and let me
know.
>> I'll host I'll host a book launch event,
Bill. Okay. We We've got We've got a lot
of fun stuff planned, but but but uh but
um I need to record the audio book. I I
know that's going to take a a lot of
time. I'm excited. There's a handful of
people that have read it, maybe maybe 50
in the publisher and whatnot, and nearly
every one of them tells me that they
immediately thought of three or four
people they want to give it to. And so,
I hope there's kind of a viral component
to it because people have that reaction.
But, you know, if you're feeling stuck
in your career, I you should read it. If
you're a teenager or young adult who
feels overwhelmed by people telling you
What do you want to major in? Where do
you want to go? What are you going to do
with your Like, I think this book
won't put more pressure on them. I think
it'll actually relax them and give them
a framework that feels like a lot more
personal to themselves and like they're
a lot more in control. If you're a
parent that wants to help a child on
that journey, I think parents sometimes
overly push kids into the lawyer doctor
banker framework. I'm not sure that's
healthy, especially in this AI world
where those jobs may be under risk as
well. And then maybe if you're, you
know, an administrator or someone in the
type of role that guide people in career
decisions, hopefully you'll like it as
well. But, we'll put the pre-order link
in the in in the show notes. I will put
it on my X feed. Please go out and
pre-order the book. I think it'll help
it be reach more people and and be
successful. Well, I think it's
it's going to be hugely impactful. And
it's the type of stuff of consequence.
I'm I'm I'm just, you know, I'm thrilled
that you're doing it. I'm thrilled that
you're taking the time to do it. I know
that's not the only thing that you're
you're thinking about. You have these
other, you know, big topics that you're
thinking about as well, Bill. We've
talked about them here, and I'm sure we
will continue to. Regulatory capture, US
healthcare, nuclear, et cetera. What are
you thinking about
with respect to those things? So, I'm
You going to write a book on every one
of them? No, I That's well, I could, but
it's not it's not my goal. My My goal is
to just go spend more times on these
really big problems and see if I can be
helpful in any way. I've spent a career
kind of breaking down and analyzing
different situations. I mean, two two of
my favorite podcasts we've done, and and
I hear I hear about this from the
community as well,
the one we did at Diablo Canyon, and
then
the one about around my China trip. And
those types of of work are very
rewarding for me, but they also were
learning expeditions. You know, I went
out and put in more hours for those
episodes than others.
>> Right. And the the nuclear one in
particular, you know, one of the things
people ask me, why would I want to go do
this? You know, we were a small part of
a movement to kind of change the mindset
on nuclear energy. And there were there
were people that put a lot more effort
into us. I'm not trying to take credit
for it. But, you know, the fact that
Steve Pinker was out there, Elon, you
know, our stuff like eventually
happened. Like overnight, it seemingly
overnight, we went from a very negative
mindset towards nuclear energy to
recognizing that it's very clean energy
and something that that can really help
save the planet. And so, that type of
meme flip, if I could go achieve more of
those in these other areas, I would
consider it a win. So, that's what's
motivating me. I'm really looking
forward to it. I'm kind of fired up and
nervous at the same time. But but that's
what that's what I'm thinking about.
There'll be more to come on that in
terms of what the actual platform looks
like. I'm still working on it. But for
now, I'm going to I'm going to sprint
into February to make sure the book does
well. I couldn't be more stoked for you.
This has been a total blast. You and I
have been chopping it up for, you know,
for a couple of decades, but doing this
last 2 years together, pounding out
these has been a lot of fun for me. I'm
sure we'll continue to chop it up every
day. And, you know, I'm sure that you'll
find some topic that you can't live
without exploring on
>> Can't resist talking about. Exactly. So,
so we'll we'll we'll get you back on.
But I'm going to give you the last word,
Bill. It's awesome awesome to hear about
all of this, and I'm super excited for
the book. Well, I would I would just,
you know, end the way I started, Brett.
Thanks to you. It's been fun working
together on this and and and doing it
every week. It does force you to stay
fresh. You have to read everything you
possibly can, which I'm sure is super
helpful to you as an investor. And then,
thanks to thanks to all our listeners.
Like
I'm
I'm sure some of them are feel going to
feel like I'm letting them down, and I I
feel the weight of that. Um but
hopefully they'll recognize that I'm
going to go try and put put my work
effort to good to good causes.
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.